---
title: "FAQ"
linkTitle: "FAQ"
date: 2021-10-9
weight: 5
description: >
---
## Kitex Framework

**Q: Does Kitex support Windows？**  
* Currently Windows is not particularly supported by Kitex. 
* If your development environment is Windows, you are suggested to use [WSL2](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install).

**Q: Does Kitex support HTTP？**  
* Kitex does not specifically provide HTTP request support, CloudWeGo is expected to open source HTTP framework "Hertz" in the first half of 2022. 
* For API gateway scenario, Kitex provides a [HTTP mapping generic call](https://www.cloudwego.io/docs/tutorials/advanced-feature/generic_call/#2-http-mapping-generic-call) regarding Thrift and sends the Thrift encoding of the HTTP request to the server.

**Q: How to configure multiplexing?**
* If you are using Thrift or Kitex Protobuf, to configure multiplexing:
  1. Configure WithMuxTransport() on your server.
  2. Configure WithMuxConnection(1) on your client
* If you are using gRPC, multiplexing is configured by default.

**Q: In the scenario of direct local call, why does the configuration of  connection pool not take effect?**  
* The ip of your local test needs to be 127.0.0.1. For example, "client.WithHostPorts("127.0.0.1:8888")".

**Q: What are the differences between "Kitex Protobuf" and  "gRPC" protocol?**  
* Kitex Protobuf is a Protobuf Message Protocol defined by Kitex framework, with similar structure to Thrift.
* gRPC provides support to gRPC message protocol and enables Kitex to interact with gRPC framework.

**Q: Issues regarding Thrift interface compiling, such as "not enough arguments in call to iprot.ReadStructBegin"**
* Based on Thrift v0.13, Kitex cannot be upgraded directly, as there is a breaking change in the interface of Apache Thrift v0.14. The reason for such problems could be that a new version of Thrift is pulled during upgrades. The use of -u parameters is not recommended during upgrades, you can run the following command to fix the version: "go mod edit -replace github.com/apache/thrift=github.com/apache/thrift@v0.13.0"

## Kitex Code Generation Tool

**Q:'not enough arguments' problem when installing the code generation tool**  
* Please try: "go mod：GO111MODULE=on go get github.com/cloudwego/kitex/tool/cmd/kitex@latest"

**Q: Would code generated by new interface overwrite handler.go**  
* Generated code under kitex_gen/ will be overwritten. But handler.go of server will not be overwritten, only new methods will be added correspondingly.


